## As sick as a dog!
Very sick

### Illsnesses and body pains
	Backache
	Sore neck - torcicolo
	Toothache
	Heartburn - azia
	stomachache
	Broken bones
	Runny nose - nariz escorrendo
	Stufy nose - nariz entupido

### How to report Symptoms
Subject + has / have / got + health problem

	I ata too much and got a stomachache
	Shes got terrible toothache
	he has broken his bones

	How do you fell today?
		I feel sick
	Is everything ok?
		Not so good
	Whats the matter
		I had a headach

## Just what the doctor ordered
	A day at the beach is just what the doctor ordered
		Tudo o que eu precisava
### Idioms

### Alive and kicking
	I had a surgery but im alive and kicking
		Estar bem da saúde apesar de alguns problemas

### An apple a day keeps the doctor away
	Eat helth food keps you healthy, distant for illnesses
	Have an apple for snack, instead those chips. An apple a day keeps the doctor away, after all

### As pale as a ghost
	Muito pálida
	My grandfather was a pale as a ghost when he entered the hospital

### Be on the mend
	Pessoa melhroando, se recuperando
	I was sick, but now im hback ome, and im on the mend

### Get a charley horse
	Uma caimbra
	The swimmer got a charly horse while he has swining

### Go under the knife
	Passar por uma cirurgia

### Usefull frases and symbols
	I have a rash on my arm, and its very itchy
		rash -> vermelhidao, relevo
	My neck is stiff and sore. I think ive pulled a muscle
		stiff - duro
		sore - dolorido
	Am i going to need surgery?
	What are my options to treatment?

	I'd like to keep you here overnight for observation
	Does it hurts when i press here?
	Im going to precribe yoy some antibiotics

	Restrooms - banheiros
	Acessibility
	Elevators / lift
	Coffe shop
	Restaurant
	Stairs
	No smoking
	Nursery -> berçario

### International abreviations
	ED -> Emergency department
	ER -> Emergency Room
	EW -> Emergency ward -> ala do hospital

### What i could talk
	Id like to see a doctor
	Do you have any doctor who speak portuguese?
	Do you have private medical insurance?
	Have you got a European Health Insurance card?
	The doctor is ready to see you now

### Doctor examing you
	Can i have a look? Where does it hurt?
	Does it hurt when i press here?
	Im going to take your blood presure
	Could you roll up your sleeve?

	You're going to need a few stiches -> alguns pontos
	Im going to give you an injection
	We need to take a urine sample
	You need to have your blood tested
	Take two of these pills three times a day
	Take this prescription to the chemist -> farmaceutico
	You should stop smoking
	You should cut down on your drinking
	You need to try to lose some weight
	I want to send you for an X-ray

